# Ship-YOLOv8
A detection algorithm for small ships at sea
Deep learning-based models have significantly advanced maritime ship target detection. None-theless, the accurate detection of small ships presents a persistently challenging technical en-deavor and remains a central focus in this research field.Technical complexities arise from the constrained pixel occupancy and blurred details intrinsic to small ships, exacerbated by environmental factors, such as waves and reflections of light on the water's surface. To bolster the algorithm's comprehensive perceptual capacity and enhance the accuracy of diminutive maritime ship detection, this paper introduces an innovative and re-fined algorithm for small ship detection at sea: You Only Look Once version 8 (Ship-YOLOv8). This research contributes significantly by: (1) To enhance the global receptive field for feature extraction, the C-Bottleneck Transformer Network module was incorporated during the con-cluding phase of feature extraction within the backbone network. (2) In the neck, the C2f mod-ule was optimized by applying the VoVGSCSP module based on GSConv. This optimization re-duces model complexity and enhances the ability to detect small ships. (3) The addition of a mi-cro-target detection head, integrated with large 160×160 feature maps, enables the detection of 4×4-pixel micro-targets, enhancing the identification of small maritime targets significantly. (4) The Wise-IoU loss function was applied to refine the original CIoU loss function, improving the overall performance of the detector. Finally, we conducted a series of experiments utilizing our self-made dataset of small maritime ships. These experiments aimed to illustrate the advantages of Ship-YOLOv8 and validate the effectiveness of its four enhanced modules. The experiments showed substantial improvement, with the proposed algorithm achieving an average precision (AP) at an IoU threshold of 0.5 (AP0.5) of 91.8% compared to YOLOv8's AP0.5 of 70.6%. This sig-nificant enhancement in the detection accuracy serves as compelling evidence affirming the su-periority of the proposed algorithm, making a contribution to the small ship detection at sea. Code is available at: https://github.com/zihaohao123/Ship-YOLOv8.
